# Smart-Energy-monitoring-with-Raspberry
Internet of Things (IoT) is a wireless telecommunications tool that utilizes other devices such as software, sensors, actuators, and easy-to-use connectivity to connect, collect and exchange information and data. One application of IoT is to unify and control the electrical power consumption of household appliances. 
Electricity is energy that is most easily converted into other energy and all human activities require electrical energy. Electrical energy has a power which is measured by multiplying the two main electrical quantities, namely voltage and current. Several studies have tried to apply IoT to unify and control the use of electrical power. 
Most studies use the web as a means of integrating electrical power. In this study, a monitoring system with an android application was created in real time. Data reading is carried out by the SCT 013-000 sensor and a transformer less circuit. Then the data from the sensor will be received by the ADS1115 16-bit ADC for conversion from analog to digital. Data processing and processing is carried out on the Raspberry Pi with the Python programming language. Then the data is sent in real time to Adafruit IO. Finally, the Dashboard on Adafruit IO will display data and graphs in real time. 
The error results obtained in the current measurement have an average of 5.72% and the error in the voltage measurement has an average of 0.378%. Controlling electrical power using the Raspberry Pi and the MQTT protocol on the Adafruit IO dashboard is well integrated which is shown to be successful during testing.
